.TH EF 1 "April 2026" "ef" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ef \- search eBay Thinkpad laptops
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ef
.BR \-\-query | \-q
\(dq\fIkeywords\fR\(dq
.RB [ \-\-exclude | \-e
\(dq\fIwords\fR\(dq ]
.RB [ \-\-limit | \-l
.IR n ]
.RB [ \-\-offset | \-o
.IR n ]
.RB [ \-\-env\-file | \-f
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-\-db\-dsn | \-d
.IR dsn ]
.RB [ \-\-help | \-h ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ef
queries the eBay Browse API for laptop listings and applies a two-pass title filter:
all query terms must appear in the title, and accessory-related terms (chargers, docks,
adapters, etc.) are automatically excluded.
.PP
Results are printed to stdout. If a database DSN is configured, each new listing is
saved to MariaDB and routed to either the
.B auctions
or
.B buy_now
table based on its buying option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-query ", " \-q " \(dq" \fIkeywords\fR \(dq
.RB ( Required )
Space-separated search keywords enclosed in double quotes. Only listings whose titles contain
.I all
keywords are returned. Example:
.B \-\-query \(DqThinkPad T14\(dq
.TP
.BR \-\-exclude ", " \-e " \(dq" \fIwords\fR \(dq
Additional space-separated words enclosed in double quotes to exclude from titles,
on top of the built-in accessory filter. Example:
.B \-\-exclude \(dqbattery cracked\(dq
.TP
.BR \-\-limit ", " \-l " " \fIn\fR
Number of results to return. Default:
.BR 10 .
.TP
.BR \-\-offset ", " \-o " " \fIn\fR
Skip the first
.I n
results. Useful for paging. Default:
.BR 0 .
.TP
.BR \-\-env\-file ", " \-f " " \fIpath\fR
Path to the
.B .env
credentials file. Default:
.BR .env .
.TP
.BR \-\-db\-dsn ", " \-d " " \fIdsn\fR
MariaDB DSN. Overrides the
.B EBAY_DB_DSN
environment variable.
Format:
.RS
.I user:pass@tcp(host:port)/dbname?parseTime=true
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Show a short usage summary and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Credentials are read from environment variables or a
.B .env
file (see
.BR \-\-env\-file ).
.PP
.TS
l l l.
Variable	Required	Description
_
EBAY_CLIENT_ID	Yes*	eBay App ID (Client ID)
EBAY_CLIENT_SECRET	Yes*	eBay Cert ID (Client Secret)
EBAY_ACCESS_TOKEN	No	Pre-fetched OAuth token (skips auto-refresh)
EBAY_ENV	No	\fBsandbox\fR or \fBproduction\fR (default: sandbox)
EBAY_MARKETPLACE_ID	No	e.g. EBAY_US (default: EBAY_US)
EBAY_DB_DSN	No	MariaDB DSN; omit to skip database persistence
.TE
.PP
* Required unless
.B EBAY_ACCESS_TOKEN
is set.
.SH BUILT-IN EXCLUSIONS
The following terms are always excluded from results regardless of
.BR \-\-exclude :
.PP
.RS
ultrabase, charger, adapter, ac adapter, power adapter, power supply,
dock, docking station, port replicator
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
ef \-\-query \(dqThinkPad X1 Carbon\(dq

ef \-\-query \(dqThinkPad T480\(dq \-\-limit 25 \-\-exclude \(dqparts only\(dq

ef \-\-query \(dqThinkPad T480\(dq \-\-limit 10 \-\-offset 10

ef \-\-query \(dqThinkPad X13\(dq \-\-db\-dsn user:pass@tcp(localhost:3306)/ef?parseTime=true
.EE
.SH DATABASE
When
.B EBAY_DB_DSN
is set, new listings are saved to MariaDB after each search.
The schema contains four tables:
.TP
.B seen_listings
Deduplication table. Every listing that passes the filter is recorded here.
A listing is considered new only if its URL has not been seen before.
.TP
.B buy_now
Fixed-price listings.
.TP
.B auctions
Auction listings, including end date, current bid, and bid count.
.TP
.B app_meta
Key/value store for run state:
.BR last_poll_at ,
.BR last_message ,
.BR last_error .
.PP
To initialize the database:
.PP
.RS
.B make db-setup DB_USER=\fIuser\fB DB_PASS=\fIpass\fB DB_NAME=ef
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.B .env
Default credentials file read at startup.
.TP
.B db/refresh.sh
Shell script that polls a predefined set of ThinkPad models and appends output to
.BR db/refresh.log .
Suitable for use with
.BR cron (8).
.TP
.B db/ebayDB.sql
MariaDB schema dump used to initialize the database.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cron (8),
.BR mysql (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Kevin Noguera
